# Who are we?

[Cloud-Foundations.org](https://www.cloud-foundations.org/) was
founded by
[Richard Gooch](https://www.linkedin.com/in/richard-gooch-00412bb1/)
and [Camilo Viecco](https://www.linkedin.com/in/camilo-viecco-40417a2/)
in September 2019. Prior to this they worked together in the Cloud
Platform Engineering (CPE) team at Symantec Inc. Although having moved
on to different opportunities, they continue to collaborate on the
Open Source technologies they initiated at Symantec.

We believe in choice. Each of the major components under the Cloud
Foundations umbrella can be used effectively without adopting the
other components (although adopting more components yields an
improved, integrated experience as the whole is greater than the sum
of the parts).

We like simplicity and minimalism. We prefer architectures which are
easy to understand and technology that is easy to configure, deploy
and maintain. We strive to build safe and sensible defaults rather
than forcing you to walk through and understand every esoteric option
(we know you just want to deploy, enjoy and move on).

We like balanced solutions that are practical and effective rather
than theoretical or incomplete. While it may sound good to say
“everything is 5 nines reliable”, for some components 2 nines would be
acceptable and 3 nines would be great “no-one would care”. This does
not mean we write software of low quality, rather that we focus on
where reliability is most needed; a system in the critical path of a
Production service should be at least 4 nines reliable whereas 3 nines
is likely fine for a build pipeline. This focus is on how to deal with
environmental failures (i.e. hardware or network failures), as the
software by itself is typically 4 nines reliable.

We seek to leverage existing standards and protocols where
appropriate, so that our technologies may interoperate with the wider
Open Source ecosystem.

We welcome new members and contributors who share the vision.

# What do we want?

We want to lower the bar for running a secure, reliable and scalable
computing platform. This can range from building a Private Cloud from
the ground up, through a Hybrid/Poly Cloud platform providing a base
layer common across Private and Public Clouds to a pure Public Cloud
environment where we help you fill in the gaps left by the cloud
provider.

# Why are we here?

We believe that it is possible to run a Private Cloud that is cost
competitive with Public Cloud offerings, provided there is discipline,
good management and good technology. We are here to bring you the
foundational technologies to help you. We also have opinions on the
other dimensions, but here we focus on the technology dimension.

# Where are we going?

We will continue to enhance the technologies that we have developed
and as we identify opportunities to solve foundational problems
inadequately addressed within the Open Source world, we will develop
new technologies. These may come in the form of tools, applications or
support libraries.

# Where are we not going?

We are not trying to build the foundations of a Public Cloud, which is
a more complex and costly endeavour, requiring much more investment to
deliver even a basic product offering. Nor do we intend to
re-implement the many good Open Source technologies that already exist
and do a fine job. So, don’t expect us to re-implement container
orchestration, databases, distributed file-systems and so on. Our
focus is the foundations on which these technologies lie.
